- [breathing deeply]
c0000001
[exhales]
c0000002
Morning.
c0000003
- Good morning to you, too, Mai.
c0000004
- Did you not sleep?
c0000005
- To be honest with you,
not even a wink.
c0000006
- You're not trying to blame me,
are you?
c0000007
- How can you sleep
so soundly like that?
c0000008
Especially when sharing a bed.
c0000009
- I've been going
to various places
c0000010
for filming since I was small.
c0000011
Besides, sleeping next
to you doesn't really
c0000012
change anything for me.
c0000013
- Well, that's a relief to hear.
In that case,
c0000014
I'll have to pull some pranks
on you the next time we do this.
c0000015
- I don't think you even have
the guts to do that.
c0000016
We're going to Fujisawa and then
to school from noon, right?
c0000017
Go step outside so
I can start getting ready.
c0000018
- It's the next morning
but like before,
c0000019
Mai isn't visible
to anyone else but me.
c0000020
- [exhales]
c0000021
- [singing in Japanese]
c0000022
[The Peggies' "Kimi no sei"]
c0000023
♪ ♪
c0000024
c0000025
♪ ♪
c0000026
[indistinct chatter]
c0000027
- What's he up to?
c0000028
- It was so funny.
c0000029
- And when I asked him about
it yesterday,
c0000030
he said he was totally fine.
c0000031
- [gasps]
c0000032
- It's exactly like
it always is, right?
c0000033
Are they ignoring you more
than they usually do,
c0000034
or are you really invisible?
c0000035
- I'll check my classroom.
c0000036
- Azusagawa.
- [grunts]
c0000037
- I have some bad news.
c0000038
It looks like everyone other
than the two of us
c0000039
have forgotten about Sakurajima.
c0000040
At least, Kunimi didn't remember
when I asked him.
c0000041
- Wait, he didn't?
c0000042
- For real?
No way!
c0000043
- You.
- Oh.
c0000044
- Hey, you know who Sakurajima
is, right?
c0000045
- Uh, Sakura?
c0000046
- Mai Sakurajima,
one of the third-years.
c0000047
- Hold on. Tomoe.
c0000048
- Why is the guy from
the rumors talking to you?
c0000049
- Uh, I really don't know.
c0000050
- None of us know who
you're talking about.
c0000051
- We should go.
c0000052
- How could you
have forgotten her?
c0000053
You can't just forget
a celebrity!
c0000054
Hey. Hey!
c0000055
- There is one possibility I
can think of.
c0000056
- Hmm?
c0000057
- Did you fall asleep
last night?
c0000058
- No, I wasn't able to.
c0000059
- I actually had
the same problem.
c0000060
- [grunts]
c0000061
- It's nothing more than a gues
for now,
c0000062
but I think that could be
the reason.
c0000063
- You're saying it's because
we didn't sleep?
c0000064
- You remember the talk we
had about measurement theory?
c0000065
- Schrodinger's Cat, right?
c0000066
- To be honest,
I thought it was ridiculous,
c0000067
but witnessing it in real time
brings a chill to my spine.
c0000068
- You mean puberty syndrome?
- No.
c0000069
I'm specifically referring
to the fact that she
c0000070
was treated like
the atmosphere even before
c0000071
her puberty syndrome started.
c0000072
Everyone at school unconsciousy
ignored Sakurajima.
c0000073
Even I took the hints
and didn't think anything about
c0000074
the situation despite
it being strange.
c0000075
- Yeah, if you don't
question it,
c0000076
it's easy to fall into.
c0000077
- That's exactly why I think
our biggest clue lies in
c0000078
the atmosphere within
this school.
c0000079
She isn't observed by any
of the students or faculty
c0000080
in this place,
c0000081
so her existence
hasn't been confirmed.
c0000082
Basically, this school is like
a box for Sakurajima
c0000083
and she's the cat inside.
c0000084
If recognition and observation
are the keys,
c0000085
then sleep is the catalyst
for the memory loss because
c0000086
it's when the human
consciousness is inactive.
c0000087
That logic makes sense to me.
c0000088
- Wait, so that means...
c0000089
- Mm.
c0000090
- If I'd slept
then right now I'd also...
c0000091
- [grunts]
c0000092
Is something wrong?
c0000093
- Uh, no.
c0000094
- Don't you have work today?
c0000095
- Yeah, but--
c0000096
- You have to keep on top
of that stuff.
c0000097
I promise you I'll be fine.
c0000098
All right, see you tomorrow!
c0000099
- Nobody is looking at her.
c0000100
Mai isn't being observed
by anyone.
c0000101
Which makes
her existence unconfirmed.
c0000102
So she's disappearing.
c0000103
Because if no one
recognizes you...
c0000104
It's the same as not existing
in this world.
c0000105
Hold on.
c0000106
If you're saying that school
is where this all started,
c0000107
why are people who have
no connections
c0000108
to this place suddenly unable
to see her, too?
c0000109
- I guess it's entirely possible
that Sakurajima somehow carried
c0000110
the atmosphere outside of here.
c0000111
And even if she didn't,
c0000112
atmospheres can easily spread
on their own.
c0000113
These days everyone reads
it without question.
c0000114
- An atmosphere's invisible,
c0000115
but it does in fact exist
around us.
c0000116
It's not something that's wise
to fight against.
c0000117
- While you're sleeping,
c0000118
it's not possible to
be conscious of another person.
c0000119
So right when you
lose consciousness,
c0000120
the atmospherization phenomenon
takes over.
c0000121
- If I sleep,
I'll forget.
c0000122
- [groans]
- [gulping]
c0000123
- Big brother, what
is that you're drinking?
c0000124
- [grunts]
Midterms start tomorrow.
c0000125
It's to help me stay focused.
c0000126
Hey, isn't it your bedtime?
c0000127
Gotta do this while I'm still
conscious enough to do so.
c0000128
[inhales deeply]
c0000129
[exhales sharply]
c0000130
What is written hereafter,
to be honest,
c0000131
is something you might find
completely unbelievable.
c0000132
But everything
is true so make sure
c0000133
to read it till the very end.
c0000134
You have to.
c0000135
- Your face looks
so disheveled.
c0000136
- And you're looking
as beautiful as ever today.
c0000137
- [grunts]
Your tie is even crooked.
c0000138
- Not that I'm complaining,
c0000139
but I really didn't think
we'd be pretending
c0000140
to be newlyweds this early on.
c0000141
- Don't be as stupid
as your face looks.
c0000142
- Are you also taking
the exams, Mai?
c0000143
I bet you can cheat as much
as you want.
c0000144
- I don't have to resort
to cheating to do well,
c0000145
thank you very much.
c0000146
Although, not like it matters
since no one's going
c0000147
to hand me an exam sheet.
c0000148
- You must be dedicated
if you're still going
c0000149
to school regardless.
c0000150
- Even if I stay home,
I won't have anything to do.
c0000151
And it's always possible
that maybe someone other
c0000152
than you will be able
to see me again today.
c0000153
- [grunts]
c0000154
[groans]
c0000155
No, don't sleep.
c0000156
If you sleep,
you'll forget.
c0000157
Don't sleep!
c0000158
[exhales]
c0000159
- Azusagawa.
c0000160
Are those dark circles
from cramming for exams?
c0000161
- Futaba.
c0000162
- Hmm?
- Do you still remember?
c0000163
- Huh?
What do you mean?
c0000164
- Oh, never mind.
c0000165
See ya later.
c0000166
- Hmm?
c0000167
- So your hypothesis actually
turned out to be correct.
c0000168
This development's got me
fired up.
c0000169
Is there a way to fix this?
c0000170
Something, anything.
c0000171
[train hisses]
c0000172
- Hey, man, you're looking
kinda zombie-ish.
c0000173
- [whimpers]
c0000174
[labored breathing]
c0000175
[groaning]
c0000176
- What did you just buy?
c0000177
- Oh, uh...
c0000178
- I knew you weren't sleeping.
c0000179
Now, sit down.
c0000180
Tomorrow's the last exam day,
right?
c0000181
I'll stay here
and help you study.
c0000182
- If you teach me while dressed
as a bunny girl,
c0000183
I'll work extra hard.
c0000184
- That's not gonna happen.
c0000185
Doing that would fill your head
with naughty thoughts
c0000186
and make you lose focus
on studying.
c0000187
- Yeah, guess you're right
about that.
c0000188
- I'll reward you if you get
a perfect score on your test.
c0000189
- Is this an "I'll do anything"
reward?
c0000190
- Even if that's what I said
it was,
c0000191
it's not like I can actually
do anything for you.
c0000192
- Then I think I'll settle
for taking a bath together.
c0000193
- Sorry, not happening.
c0000194
- Then how about we go
on that date
c0000195
to Kamakura we couldn't do?
c0000196
- That's fine.
c0000197
But are you okay with that?
c0000198
- Sorry, I guess you wanted me
to ask for something
c0000199
a bit more extreme.
c0000200
- Don't put words in my mouth.
- [groaning]
c0000201
Ah, this is helping
to wake me up.
c0000202
- You're just so bold
despite being younger than me.
c0000203
Time to study.
c0000204
Starting with kanji.
c0000205
In the two sentences,
c0000206
"Nobody is here
to guarantee Sakuta's future,"
c0000207
and "Sakuta's life
has no security,"
c0000208
the kanji for "guarantee"
and "security" is "hoshou."
c0000209
- Teacher, I sense malice
in those examples.
c0000210
- Start writing them down.
c0000211
- [grunts]
c0000212
- Now, which "hoshou" is
the one for,
c0000213
"Nobody is here to guarantee
Sakuta's future?"
c0000214
- Let's see.
c0000215
I'm sorry,
but can you give me a hint?
c0000216
- This is "take
on responsibility,"
c0000217
and this one essentially
means "protect."
c0000218
- Then I assume that would
probably mean,
c0000219
"I guarantee Mai's happy
future," would be this one,
c0000220
and, "There is substantial
security in
c0000221
the couple's future,"
is this other one?
c0000222
- Don't just change things
for your own benefit.
c0000223
How's your sister?
- I think she's already asleep.
c0000224
Do you have siblings?
c0000225
- I have a half-sister.
c0000226
She was born
from my father's remarriage
c0000227
after he and my mother chose
to separate.
c0000228
- Do you think she's cute?
c0000229
- She's not as cute as me.
c0000230
- Wow, how childish.
c0000231
- So you like the type that
definitely knows she's cuter
c0000232
but will lie to you saying,
"She's cute,"
c0000233
about another girl just
to seem pleasant?
c0000234
- That's actually
the type I don't like.
c0000235
- You see?
c0000236
- You still shouldn't...
c0000237
Be so mean about it.
c0000238
- Well, that's good.
c0000239
Looks like it's working.
c0000240
- No, I can't sleep just yet.
c0000241
- You put in so much effort,
Sakuta.
c0000242
I appreciate you doing that
for my sake.
c0000243
- Not yet.
c0000244
This can't be how it...
c0000245
- What you've done is enough.
c0000246
It's all right now.
c0000247
- No, it's not.
c0000248
- I was alone to start off with
so I'm used to it.
c0000249
I'll be fine.
c0000250
You forgetting about me
isn't that big a deal.
c0000251
Regardless,
thanks for everything.
c0000252
And I'm sorry.
c0000253
- [exhales]
c0000254
- Goodnight, Sakuta.
c0000255
And goodbye.
c0000256
- ...Brother? Big brother?
c0000257
It's morning!
c0000258
- [groans]
c0000259
[grunts]
c0000260
- Today is the last day
of exams, isn't it?
c0000261
Get up or you're gonna be late!
c0000262
- [groans]
c0000263
Thanks.
You're a real lifesaver.
c0000264
I'm glad you came
and woke me up.
c0000265
- Huh?
Wh--What is this thing?
c0000266
- Maybe it's something that I
was gonna ask you to put on.
c0000267
- [gasps]
There's no way!
c0000268
Kaede isn't anywhere near
old enough
c0000269
to be wearing sexy clothing
like that yet!
c0000270
[grunts]
c0000271
- [exhales]
c0000272
[yawns]
c0000273
Mm?
c0000274
Hmm.
c0000275
What is written hereafter,
to be honest,
c0000276
is something you might find
completely unbelievable,
c0000277
but everything
is true so make sure
c0000278
to read until the very end.
You have to.
c0000279
What is this?
c0000280
May 6th. I encountered
a wild bunny girl.
c0000281
She's my upper classman--
c0000282
a third-year
at Minegahara High School.
c0000283
That celebrity...
c0000284
Guess this is what
I'd call my dark past.
c0000285
I do remember going to Ogaki
but I'm pretty sure I
c0000286
was traveling alone then.
c0000287
When I find a girlfriend,
I suppose I put her name here?
c0000288
[grunts]
c0000289
- You're lookin' a lot
healthier today, Sakuta.
c0000290
- Huh?
c0000291
- Up till now you've been
c0000292
walking around like a zombie.
c0000293
I wonder, are you the type that
crams the night before exams
c0000294
or not?
- Nope.
c0000295
I'm the type that gives up
and goes to bed.
c0000296
- That's what I thought.
- [gasps]
c0000297
Uh--
- Is something wrong?
c0000298
- No, it just felt like someone
was looking at me.
c0000299
Oh, hey.
- Here.
c0000300
- This a love letter?
- No, it isn't.
c0000301
- "It is assumed that all forms
of matter that reside
c0000302
"in this world are confirmed
to take shape as matter
c0000303
once there is someone around
to observe them."
c0000304
What's this?
c0000305
- I didn't understand, either.
c0000306
I noticed it inside my textbook
this morning.
c0000307
And this was there with it.
c0000308
All right, you have it now,
so I'm leaving.
c0000309
- Huh. "If her disappearance
is based on
c0000310
"the students'
unconscious ignorance,
c0000311
"then what you need to do,
Azusagawa,
c0000312
"is to create a reason
for her existence
c0000313
"that overrides all of that.
In other words,
c0000314
"your love needs
to be stronger than
c0000315
the ignorance
of every student put together."
c0000316
My love, huh?
c0000317
[indistinct chatter]
c0000318
[gasps]
c0000319
- This is "take
on responsibility,"
c0000320
and this one essentially
means "protect."
c0000321
In the two sentences,
c0000322
"Nobody is here
to guarantee Sakuta's future,"
c0000323
and "Sakuta's life
has no security,"
c0000324
the kanji for "guarantee"
and "security" is "hoshou."
c0000325
- What?
c0000326
[gasping]
c0000327
- Azusagawa,
why are you standing?
c0000328
- I gotta number two!
c0000329
[breathing heavily]
c0000330
[grunts]
c0000331
Something important came to me.
c0000332
I've regained memories
of someone I loved.
c0000333
Now I have to go up against
the atmosphere.
c0000334
The thing that won't budge even
if I push or pull or hit it.
c0000335
It just surrounds the school.
c0000336
Being a follower
is nice and easy.
c0000337
Deciding if things are good
or bad on your own
c0000338
uses tons of calories.
c0000339
And having your own will
means you'll get hurt
c0000340
when you're rejected.
c0000341
So if you're exactly the same
as everyone else,
c0000342
you know you'll be safe.
c0000343
You don't have to see what you
don't want to,
c0000344
and no thinking about what
you don't want to, either.
c0000345
You can just leave it
to someone else.
c0000346
But...
c0000347
There's no reason for you
to torment someone
c0000348
simply because everyone else
is doing it.
c0000349
Regardless if everyone
is doing it or saying it,
c0000350
that doesn't mean it's right.
c0000351
And who the heck is everyone,
anyway?
c0000352
She always teased me
by reminding me I
c0000353
was younger than her.
c0000354
Her face would turn bright red
whenever anything sexy
c0000355
was mentioned.
c0000356
She was so stubborn and would o
her best to hide her mistakes.
c0000357
Selfish, dramatic, moody.
c0000358
And yet surprisingly naive
for someone older than me.
c0000359
[breathing heavily]
c0000360
I won't let people ignore her
c0000361
and pretend they don't see her.
c0000362
I'll carve her into everyone's
memory so they can't ignore he!
c0000363
[breathing heavily]
c0000364
I won't read
the atmosphere anymore.
c0000365
It's so stupid!
c0000366
[grunts]
c0000367
[exhales]
c0000368
[inhales sharply]
c0000369
Listen up, everyone!
c0000370
This is important!
c0000371
Class 2-1!
c0000372
Attendance number one!
c0000373
Sakuta Azusagawa!
c0000374
This message is
for Mai Sakurajima
c0000375
in class 3-1!
c0000376
[inhales sharply]
c0000377
Sakurajima, I need you
to know I love you!
c0000378
- [giggles]
c0000379
Man, this sucks!
c0000380
I knew it'd be like this.
c0000381
This is so embarrassing,
and for what?
c0000382
I didn't wanna oppose
the atmosphere
c0000383
for this exact reason!
c0000384
Dammit!
c0000385
Hey, Mai!
c0000386
I love you!
c0000387
I do, I do, I do, I do, I do!
c0000388
You hear that?
c0000389
I love you!
c0000390
Let's hold hands
on Shichigahama Beach!
c0000391
I wanna see you in
that bunny girl outfit again!
c0000392
I wanna grab you
and hold you tight!
c0000393
And I really wanna kiss you,
too!
c0000394
[panting and coughing]
c0000395
What I'm trying to say is,
Mai...
c0000396
I love, love, love,
love you so much!
c0000397
[grunts]
c0000398
[breathing heavily]
c0000399
- You don't have to say
it so loudly.
c0000400
I hear you, you know.
c0000401
- [gasps]
c0000402
- You're bothering everyone.
c0000403
- [gasps]
c0000404
Since I had the chance,
c0000405
I wanted the whole world
to know just how I felt.
c0000406
- You're such an idiot!
c0000407
- It's better than me pretending
to be smart, right?
c0000408
- This is serious.
c0000409
If you stand out like this,
c0000410
people will start rumors
about you again.
c0000411
- If the rumors
are about being with you,
c0000412
that's fine with me.
c0000413
- That's not what I mean.
c0000414
- You...
c0000415
You're so dumb!
c0000416
[whimpers]
c0000417
[grunts]
- [groans]
c0000418
Huh? But why?
c0000419
- You liar!
You said you wouldn't forget!
c0000420
You said you'd never forget!
c0000421
- I'm sorry.
c0000422
- It's too late.
- I'm sorry.
c0000423
- Well, I won't forgive you.
c0000424
- Fine, then. I won't let go
of you till you do.
c0000425
- In that case,
I'll never forgive you.
c0000426
- What?
c0000427
- Come on. Really?
c0000428
Why that reaction?
Isn't that what you want?
c0000429
- Hey, uh, your foot.
c0000430
- Aren't you happy
being stepped on?
c0000431
- Sorry. I'm sorry.
c0000432
I didn't mean it.
Can you please forgive me?
c0000433
- Have anything else to say?
c0000434
- I'm happy to be stepped on
by you.
c0000435
- Those aren't really
the words I'm looking to hear
c0000436
from you right now.
c0000437
- [groaning]
c0000438
I love you.
c0000439
- You sure about that?
c0000440
- I lied.
I love you a lot.
c0000441
- [exhales]
c0000442
Hey, Sakuta.
- What?
c0000443
- Can you tell me that again
in about a month?
c0000444
- Why is that?
c0000445
- If I give you my response now,
c0000446
I'll feel like I was forced into
it by the momentum.
c0000447
- To be honest,
c0000448
all I'm thinking about
c0000449
is how I wanna kiss you.
c0000450
- Maybe the situation we're in
c0000451
is the reason our hearts
are racing.
c0000452
- You seem pretty calm,
considering.
c0000453
Although, I can't wait a month,
c0000454
so how 'bout daily?
c0000455
- That's fine,
but you have to keep doing it
c0000456
for the whole month.
c0000457
If you can't do that
then I'll take it
c0000458
as you changing your mind.
- [grunts]
c0000459
- Really, they all love
taking hints, don't they?
c0000460
- The rumor going around
that Sakuta hospitalized
c0000461
a couple of his classmates,
just so you know,
c0000462
none of it is true!
c0000463
- Wait, but how does
Sakurajima know about that?
c0000464
- What kind of relationship
do those two have?
c0000465
- You've wanted someone
to do that, right?
c0000466
- Everyone's actually
paying attention
c0000467
to me thanks to you.
c0000468
Getting lectured in the faculty
office later's gonna suck.
c0000469
- You'll be fine.
c0000470
Because I'm going to be lectured
right there next to you.
c0000471
- Well, then it shouldn't
be that bad.
c0000472
- You two over there!
- [grunts]
c0000473
- Get over here right now!
c0000474
[both chuckling]
c0000475
- And just like that,
c0000476
the world regained
Mai Sakurajima.
c0000477
- You know, I always had
c0000478
a feeling you were iron-hearted,
Sakuta.
c0000479
- If that was me,
I would die from embarrassment.
c0000480
Oh, Azusagawa.
Such an adolescent rascal.
c0000481
- Wait, what's that supposed
to mean?
c0000482
- When the rumors
about hospitalization
c0000483
were going around the school,
c0000484
you told me about how you
thought fighting the atmosphere
c0000485
was stupid, remember?
c0000486
- You did say that.
c0000487
- We can't take anything that
you say for yourself seriously.
c0000488
But it seems you're willing
to face all kinds
c0000489
of embarrassment
for a beautiful girl.
c0000490
What does that make you
if not an adolescent rascal?
c0000491
- [chuckles]
c0000492
Hey, do you think it's safe
to say that your hypothesis
c0000493
was correct in the end?
c0000494
- Who knows?
c0000495
Illusions shown
by unstable psyches
c0000496
or strong preconceptions
of adolescence--
c0000497
if that's what puberty syndrome
really is,
c0000498
then scientific verification
won't be that reliable.
c0000499
However, there's always
the possibility
c0000500
that our world is so simple,
c0000501
a single confession of love
can change it drastically.
c0000502
Just like you proved today,
Azusagawa.
c0000503
- [grunts]
c0000504
Maybe you're right.
c0000505
- [singing in Japanese]
c0000506
["Fukashigi no Carte" plays]
c0000507
♪ ♪
c0000508
c0000509
- Unfortunately, Mai's situatin
wasn't the last incident relatd
c0000510
to puberty syndrome.
c0000511
Right after Schrodinger's Cat,
c0000512
Laplace's demon--
no, Laplace's petit devil--
c0000513
suddenly appeared.
c0000514
- Oh, Sakuta.
You're such a rascal.